AzureMonitor: Refresh documentation (#35371)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/datasources/azuremonitor/_index.md

+++
title = "Azure Monitor"
description = "Guide for using Azure Monitor in Grafana"
keywords = ["grafana", "microsoft", "azure", "monitor", "application", "insights", "log", "analytics", "guide"]
aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/features/datasources/azuremonitor"]
weight = 300
+++

# Azure Monitor data source

> Grafana includes built-in support for Azure Monitor, the Azure service to maximise availability and performance of your applications and services in the Azure Cloud. The Azure Monitor data source supports visualising data from three Azure services:

Reviewer: Yes, we do! Good catch!

> Grafana includes built-in support for Azure Monitor, the Azure service to maximise availability and performance of your applications and services in the Azure Cloud. The Azure Monitor data source supports visualising data from three Azure services:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Grafana includes built-in support for Azure Monitor, the Azure service to maximize the availability and performance of your applications and services in the Azure Cloud. The Azure Monitor data source supports visualizing data from three Azure services:
```

- **Azure Monitor Metrics** to collect numeric data from resources in your Azure account
- **Azure Monitor Logs** to collect log and performance data from your Azure account, and query using the powerful Kusto Language

> - **Azure Resource Graph** to quickly query your Azure resources across subscriptions

Reviewer 2: Add a period "." at the end of each bullet.

This topic explains configuring, querying, and other options specific to the Azure Monitor data source. Refer to [Add a data source]({{< relref "add-a-data-source.md" >}}) for instructions on how to add a data source to Grafana.

## Azure Monitor configuration

> To access Azure Monitor configuration, hover your mouse over the **Configuration** (gear) icon, click **Data Sources**, and then click the Azure Monitor data source. If you haven't already, you'll need to [add the Azure Monitor data source]({{< relref "add-a-data-source.md" >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To access Azure Monitor configuration, hover your mouse over the **Configuration** (gear) icon, click **Data Sources**, and then select the Azure Monitor data source. If you haven't already, you'll need to [add the Azure Monitor data source]({{< relref "add-a-data-source.md" >}}).
```

| Default subscription    | _(optional)_ Sets a default subscription for template variables to use                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Default workspace       | _(optional)_ Sets a default workspace for Log Analytics-based template variable queries to use                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

## Azure Monitor query editor

The Azure Monitor data source has three different modes depending on which Azure service you wish to query:

- **Metrics** for [Azure Monitor Metrics](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/data-platform-metrics)
- **Logs** for [Azure Monitor Logs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/logs/data-platform-logs)

> - [**Azure Resource Graph**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/governance/resource-graph/overview)

Reviewer 2: Azure Resource Graph should be bold.

Reviewer 2: Also, I suggest adding hyperlinks to topics like "Querying Azure Monitor Metrics", "Querying Azure Monitor Logs" and "Querying with Azure Resource Graph" upfront. Otherwise, users may not know the Querying Azure Monitor Logs section exists.

Author: Azure Resource Graph is bold 😅

Good suggestion for the links though
